Bonnie Chin
Project 2 - Creative Game

My vision for the game was create a scrolling game with multiple levels where the player had to navigate from one level to the next. In order to do so, the player has to use the arrow keys to travel from the bottom of the scree to the top. To bring this to life, I developed a theme of outer space where the player is controlling a rocket ship and has to navigate through the levels and ultimately reach planet earth - at which point, the game is complete and the player wins the game. Along the way, the player will encounter traveling stars and meteorites. They can collect the stars to increase their score. However, the player has to avoid traveling meteorites. If they collide into one, then they automatically lose, and the game ends. As the player completes the levels, the game will reset the grid for the new level and start the new level, which is harder because the traveling objects move at a faster pace.

Besides digitally drawing all the images used in this game, I also created numerous additional methods to logistically bring my concept to life. These methods were created to update the screen, such as resetting it for a new level when necessary, and indicating to the player if they lost, completed a level, or won the game. For instance, I created the method resetGrid() to clear the cell contents in the grid for a new level. This method is called by resetGame() that serves as the overall greater method to entirely reset the game as a whole in preparation for a new level. The resetGame() method does by first updating the screen to indicate to the player that the game is complete. Then when the player presses the spacebar, the game knows to continue and reset the player's location to the bottom of the game, and to start playing the new level.
